README.MD, before:

# The Landing Page

Our Documentation Landing Page.  

https://docs.robotframework.org/

Links to 

- Guides
- User Guide
- Standard Library Documentation
- API Documentation

# The Guides

Find some hints and examples on how to use the Robot Framework.  
The Guides helps **beginners** to get started and **advanced users** to get new ideas.

https://docs.robotframework.org/docs

# Contribute

This documentation project is powered by [Docusaurus](https://docusaurus.io/) and maintained on [GitHub](https://github.com/MarketSquare/robotframeworkguides)

The basic steps to contribute to the project are:
- Fork the project on GitHub
- Clone the repository locally
- Install the project dependencies via `npm install`
- Update existing documentation files with the new content or add new files
- Run `npm start` to start [Development Server](https://docusaurus.io/docs/installation#running-the-development-server) to see changes in real time on [localhost](http://localhost:3000)
- Build static html files with `npm run build`
- Test the build locally with `npm run serve`
- Commit the changes to the repository
- Push the changes to GitHub (only the changed .md files and other static files - **Do Not push the built .html files**)
- Build and Deployment will be handled by GitHub Actions

## Gitpod.io
[![Open in Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/button/open-in-gitpod.svg)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/MarketSquare/robotframeworkguides)  
Contribute using [Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/MarketSquare/robotframeworkguides).  
No need to install anything locally on your machine.

Commit message:

Add step to open website/ folder

README.MD, after:

# The Landing Page

Our Documentation Landing Page.  

https://docs.robotframework.org/

Links to 

- Guides
- User Guide
- Standard Library Documentation
- API Documentation

# The Guides

Find some hints and examples on how to use the Robot Framework.  
The Guides helps **beginners** to get started and **advanced users** to get new ideas.

https://docs.robotframework.org/docs

# Contribute

This documentation project is powered by [Docusaurus](https://docusaurus.io/) and maintained on [GitHub](https://github.com/MarketSquare/robotframeworkguides)

The basic steps to contribute to the project are:
- Fork the project on GitHub
- Clone the repository locally
- Open the repository folder and open the folder `website/`
- Install the project dependencies via `npm install`
- Update existing documentation files with the new content or add new files
- Run `npm start` to start [Development Server](https://docusaurus.io/docs/installation#running-the-development-server) to see changes in real time on [localhost](http://localhost:3000)
- Build static html files with `npm run build`
- Test the build locally with `npm run serve`
- Commit the changes to the repository
- Push the changes to GitHub (only the changed .md files and other static files - **Do Not push the built .html files**)
- Build and Deployment will be handled by GitHub Actions

## Gitpod.io
[![Open in Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/button/open-in-gitpod.svg)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/MarketSquare/robotframeworkguides)  
Contribute using [Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/MarketSquare/robotframeworkguides).  
No need to install anything locally on your machine.
