website/docs/getting_started/videos.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 4
sidebar_label: Videos
title: Videos and Tutorials
description: Videos and Tutorials
---

## Test Automation University

Test Automation University is a free, online learning platform for software testers and developers. It is a community-driven project that is supported by the community. The goal of Test Automation University is to provide free, high-quality, and up-to-date training for software testers and developers.

[Introduction To Robot Framework](https://testautomationu.applitools.com/robot-framework-tutorial/)  

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Kve1luX1rOQ" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>


## YouTube

### Robot Framework Tutorials

This channel is dedicated to those who want to start automating with Robot Framework but also to those who are already using this tool and want to find out new tips and tricks they might have missed.

[Robot Framework Tutorials Channel](https://www.youtube.com/@RobotFrameworkTutorials)  

---

[Complete Robot Framework Tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL4GZKvvcjS3u9FP3F9zW4ZbZB8pti2k37)  

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/videoseries?list=PL4GZKvvcjS3u9FP3F9zW4ZbZB8pti2k37" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

[Web Automation With Robot Framework](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL4GZKvvcjS3sRKidOUNVQSR3aq7TEQglp)  

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/videoseries?list=PL4GZKvvcjS3sRKidOUNVQSR3aq7TEQglp" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

[Mobile Automation With Robot Framework And Appium](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL4GZKvvcjS3vAPWLqWbKZogkL5cD71yrT)  

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/videoseries?list=PL4GZKvvcjS3vAPWLqWbKZogkL5cD71yrT" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

Commit message:

Add official Robot Framework Tutorial Videos

website/docs/getting_started/videos.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 4
sidebar_label: Videos
title: Videos and Tutorials
description: Videos and Tutorials
---

## Official Robot Framework Tutorial

The official Robot Framework tutorial video presented by the Robot Framework creator **Pekka Klärck**.  
New videos will be added to this playlist in the future.

[Official Robot Framework Tutorial](https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLSK6YK5OGX1AuQy0tbvdKBV9mrKi46kKH)

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/videoseries?list=PLSK6YK5OGX1AuQy0tbvdKBV9mrKi46kKH" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share; fullscreen" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

## Robot Framework Tutorials

This channel is dedicated to those who want to start automating with Robot Framework but also to those who are already using this tool and want to find out new tips and tricks they might have missed.

[Robot Framework Tutorials Channel](https://www.youtube.com/@RobotFrameworkTutorials)  

---

[Complete Robot Framework Tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL4GZKvvcjS3u9FP3F9zW4ZbZB8pti2k37)  

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/videoseries?list=PL4GZKvvcjS3u9FP3F9zW4ZbZB8pti2k37" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; fullscreen" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

[Web Automation With Robot Framework](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL4GZKvvcjS3sRKidOUNVQSR3aq7TEQglp)  

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/videoseries?list=PL4GZKvvcjS3sRKidOUNVQSR3aq7TEQglp" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; fullscreen" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

[Mobile Automation With Robot Framework And Appium](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL4GZKvvcjS3vAPWLqWbKZogkL5cD71yrT)  

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/videoseries?list=PL4GZKvvcjS3vAPWLqWbKZogkL5cD71yrT" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; fullscreen" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

## Test Automation University

Test Automation University is a free, online learning platform for software testers and developers. It is a community-driven project that is supported by the community. The goal of Test Automation University is to provide free, high-quality, and up-to-date training for software testers and developers.

[Introduction To Robot Framework](https://testautomationu.applitools.com/robot-framework-tutorial/)  

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Kve1luX1rOQ" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; fullscreen" allowfullscreen></iframe>
