website/docs/index.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 0
sidebar_label: Robot Framework Guides
title: Robot Framework Guides
---
import {
  HomepageCard as Card,
  HomepageSection as Section,
} from '@site/src/components/HomepageComponents';
import ArrowUpDownIcon from '/icons/arrow-up-down.svg';
import BedIcon from '/icons/bed.svg';
import BotIcon from '/icons/bot.svg';
import BugIcon from '/icons/bug.svg';
import CarIcon from '/icons/car.svg';
import HeartHandshakeIcon from '/icons/heart-handshake.svg';
import HelpCircleIcon from '/icons/help-circle.svg';
import ListIcon from '/icons/list.svg';
import ListChecksIcon from '/icons/list-checks.svg';
import MonitorIcon from '/icons/monitor.svg';
import UsersIcon from '/icons/users.svg';
import Code2Icon from '/icons/code-2.svg';
import PackageIcon from '/icons/package.svg';
import RocketIcon from '/icons/rocket.svg';
import FileCodeIcon from '/icons/file-code.svg';
import SearchIcon from '/icons/search.svg';
import MicroscopeIcon from '/icons/microscope.svg';
import LoginIcon from '/icons/log-in.svg';
import FolderTreeIcon from '/icons/folder-tree.svg';

Welcome to the Robot Framework Guides!  
We hope these guides will help you get started with Robot Framework **faster and easier**.  
If you have any questions, please reach out to our awesome community on [Slack](https://robotframework.slack.com/).

 <Section title="Getting Started" description="Set up your machine to use Robot Framework">
            <Card
              title="Test Automation"
              icon=<BugIcon/>
              description="How to set up Robot Framework for testing"
              to="/getting_started/testing"
            />
            <Card
              title="RPA"
              icon=<BotIcon/>
              description="How to set up Robot Framework for Robotic Process Automation (RPA)"
              to="/getting_started/rpa"
            />
            <Card
              title="IDE"
              icon=<Code2Icon/>
              description="Install and set up your IDE for coding and debugging"
              to="/getting_started/ide"
            />
          </Section>

 <Section title="Libraries" description="Steering and Automating different technologies">
              <Card
              title="Library Overview"
              icon=<ListIcon/>
              description="A list of different libraries available for Robot Framework"
              to="/different_libraries/overview"
            />
             <Card
              title="Which Library?"
              icon=<HelpCircleIcon/>
              description="How to choose the right library for your use case"
              to="/different_libraries/how_to_find_library"
            />
            <Card
              title="Browser Library"
              icon=<MonitorIcon/>
              description="Automate Web Applications"
              to="/different_libraries/browser"
            />
            <Card
              title="Selenium Library"
              icon=<MonitorIcon/>
              description="Automate Web Applications"
              to="/different_libraries/selenium"
            />
            <Card
              title="Requests Library"
              icon=<ArrowUpDownIcon/>
              description="Automate APIs"
              to="/different_libraries/requests"
            />
            <Card
              title="RPA"
              icon=<BotIcon/>
              description="Libraries for Robotic Process Automation (RPA)"
              to="/different_libraries/rpa"
            />
          </Section>

 <Section title="Examples" description="Examples which show how to use Robot Framework and its Libraries">
            <Card
              title="Examples Overview"
              icon=<ListIcon/>
              description="A list of examples for Robot Framework"
              to="/examples/overview"
            />
            <Card
              title="Project Structure"
              icon=<FolderTreeIcon/>
              description="How to organize your test/rpa project"
              to="/examples/project_structure"
            />
            <Card
              title="Vehicle Insurance Application"
              icon=<CarIcon/>
              description="An vehicle insurance calculator web app that requires user inputs in multiple screens"
              to="/examples/insurance"
            />
            <Card
              title="ToDo App"
              icon=<ListChecksIcon/>
              description="A simple todo app built in different frameworks and automated using Browser Library"
              to="/examples/todo"
            />
            <Card
              title="Restful Booker"
              icon=<BedIcon/>
              description="A room booking app with a REST API"
              to="/examples/restfulbooker"
            />
            <Card
              title="MFA Login"
              icon=<LoginIcon/>
              description="A Login page which requires a two-factor authentication with a TOTP code"
              to="/examples/mfa_login"
            />
          </Section>

<Section title="Docker and CI" description="How to run Robot Framework in Containers and in CI Systems">
            <Card
              title="Docker Images"
              icon=<PackageIcon/>
              description="Docker Images which can be used for testing"
              to="/using_rf_in_ci_systems/docker"
            />
            <Card
              title="CI Systems"
              icon=<RocketIcon/>
              description="Examples for different CI Systems"
              to="/using_rf_in_ci_systems/ci"
            />
          </Section>
  
  <Section title="Custom Libraries and APIs" description="How to extend Robot Framwork and unleash its full potential via the API">
            <Card
              title="Create a Library"
              icon=<FileCodeIcon/>
              description="How to create your own custom library"
              to="/extending_robot_framework/static_library"
            />
            <Card
              title="Parse Test Results"
              icon=<MicroscopeIcon/>
              description="How to parse test results with the Result Visitor API"
              to="/parsing_results"
            />
          </Section>
 
 <Section title="About Robot Framework Guides" description="Something about us and how to support the project">
            <Card
              title="About Us"
              icon=<UsersIcon/>
              description="Who we are and what we do"
              to="/about_us"
            />
            <Card
              title="Contribute"
              icon=<HeartHandshakeIcon/>
              description="How to join and support us"
              to="/contribute"
            />
          </Section>



:::note How to contribute
The Robot Framework Guides project is always looking for contributors.
If you want to share your knowledge and practices, please join us on [GitHub](https://github.com/MarketSquare/robotframeworkguides).
You can find more details about how to contribute on our [contributing page](contribute.md).
:::

Commit message:

Update cards for RF libraries

website/docs/index.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 0
sidebar_label: Robot Framework Guides
title: Robot Framework Guides
---
import {
  HomepageCard as Card,
  HomepageSection as Section,
} from '@site/src/components/HomepageComponents';
import ArrowUpDownIcon from '/icons/arrow-up-down.svg';
import BedIcon from '/icons/bed.svg';
import BotIcon from '/icons/bot.svg';
import BugIcon from '/icons/bug.svg';
import CarIcon from '/icons/car.svg';
import HeartHandshakeIcon from '/icons/heart-handshake.svg';
import HelpCircleIcon from '/icons/help-circle.svg';
import ListIcon from '/icons/list.svg';
import ListChecksIcon from '/icons/list-checks.svg';
import MonitorIcon from '/icons/monitor.svg';
import UsersIcon from '/icons/users.svg';
import Code2Icon from '/icons/code-2.svg';
import PackageIcon from '/icons/package.svg';
import RocketIcon from '/icons/rocket.svg';
import FileCodeIcon from '/icons/file-code.svg';
import SearchIcon from '/icons/search.svg';
import MicroscopeIcon from '/icons/microscope.svg';
import LoginIcon from '/icons/log-in.svg';
import FolderTreeIcon from '/icons/folder-tree.svg';
import ToyBrickIcon from '/icons/toy-brick.svg';


Welcome to the Robot Framework Guides!  
We hope these guides will help you get started with Robot Framework **faster and easier**.  
If you have any questions, please reach out to our awesome community on [Slack](https://robotframework.slack.com/).

 <Section title="Getting Started" description="Set up your machine to use Robot Framework">
            <Card
              title="Test Automation"
              icon=<BugIcon/>
              description="How to set up Robot Framework for testing"
              to="/getting_started/testing"
            />
            <Card
              title="RPA"
              icon=<BotIcon/>
              description="How to set up Robot Framework for Robotic Process Automation (RPA)"
              to="/getting_started/rpa"
            />
            <Card
              title="IDE"
              icon=<Code2Icon/>
              description="Install and set up your IDE for coding and debugging"
              to="/getting_started/ide"
            />
          </Section>

 <Section title="Libraries" description="Steering and Automating different technologies">
              <Card
              title="Library Overview"
              icon=<ListIcon/>
              description="A list of different libraries available for Robot Framework"
              to="/different_libraries/overview"
            />
             <Card
              title="Which Library?"
              icon=<HelpCircleIcon/>
              description="How to choose the right library for your use case"
              to="/different_libraries/how_to_find_library"
            />
            <Card
              title="Browser Library"
              icon=<MonitorIcon/>
              description="Automate Web Applications"
              to="/different_libraries/browser"
            />
            <Card
              title="Selenium Library"
              icon=<MonitorIcon/>
              description="Automate Web Applications"
              to="/different_libraries/selenium"
            />
            <Card
              title="Requests Library"
              icon=<ArrowUpDownIcon/>
              description="Automate APIs"
              to="/different_libraries/requests"
            />
            <Card
              title="RPA"
              icon=<BotIcon/>
              description="Libraries for Robotic Process Automation (RPA)"
              to="/different_libraries/rpa"
            />
          </Section>

 <Section title="Examples" description="Examples which show how to use Robot Framework and its Libraries">
            <Card
              title="Examples Overview"
              icon=<ListIcon/>
              description="A list of examples for Robot Framework"
              to="/examples/overview"
            />
            <Card
              title="Project Structure"
              icon=<FolderTreeIcon/>
              description="How to organize your test/rpa project"
              to="/examples/project_structure"
            />
            <Card
              title="Vehicle Insurance Application"
              icon=<CarIcon/>
              description="An vehicle insurance calculator web app that requires user inputs in multiple screens"
              to="/examples/insurance"
            />
            <Card
              title="ToDo App"
              icon=<ListChecksIcon/>
              description="A simple todo app built in different frameworks and automated using Browser Library"
              to="/examples/todo"
            />
            <Card
              title="Restful Booker"
              icon=<BedIcon/>
              description="A room booking app with a REST API"
              to="/examples/restfulbooker"
            />
            <Card
              title="MFA Login"
              icon=<LoginIcon/>
              description="A Login page which requires a two-factor authentication with a TOTP code"
              to="/examples/mfa_login"
            />
          </Section>

<Section title="Docker and CI" description="How to run Robot Framework in Containers and in CI Systems">
            <Card
              title="Docker Images"
              icon=<PackageIcon/>
              description="Docker Images which can be used for testing"
              to="/using_rf_in_ci_systems/docker"
            />
            <Card
              title="CI Systems"
              icon=<ToyBrickIcon/>
              description="Examples for different CI Systems"
              to="/using_rf_in_ci_systems/ci"
            />
          </Section>
  
  <Section title="Custom Libraries and APIs" description="How to extend Robot Framwork and unleash its full potential via the API">
            <Card
              title="Python Library"
              icon=<FileCodeIcon/>
              description="How to create your own library in Python"
              to="/extending_robot_framework/python_library"
            />
            <Card
              title="Package and Release a Library"
              icon=<RocketIcon/>
              description="How to package and release your own custom library"
              to="/extending_robot_framework/releasing_your_own_libraries"
            />
            <Card
              title="Parse Test Results"
              icon=<MicroscopeIcon/>
              description="How to parse test results with the Result Visitor API"
              to="/parsing_results"
            />
          </Section>
 
 <Section title="About Robot Framework Guides" description="Something about us and how to support the project">
            <Card
              title="About Us"
              icon=<UsersIcon/>
              description="Who we are and what we do"
              to="/about_us"
            />
            <Card
              title="Contribute"
              icon=<HeartHandshakeIcon/>
              description="How to join and support us"
              to="/contribute"
            />
          </Section>



:::note How to contribute
The Robot Framework Guides project is always looking for contributors.
If you want to share your knowledge and practices, please join us on [GitHub](https://github.com/MarketSquare/robotframeworkguides).
You can find more details about how to contribute on our [contributing page](contribute.md).
:::
